>> This is "Nuevo, the UFOs
of Los Alamos, New Mexico."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> Traditional stories indicate
that the first extraterrestrial
craft that we know crash landed
near Los Alamos in Roswell,
New Mexico on July 3rd, 1947.
However, recent
investigations have
shown that the first ship
fell just 18 miles from where
the first atomic
bomb was detonated.
30 days after this
happened, the atomic bomb
was detonated on July 16th.
And on August 16th, precisely
in New Mexico in San Antonio,
this ship was seen to
crash land with up to four
extraterrestrials inside.
Quite a fantastic story.
>> San Antonio, New Mexico.
Almost two years before an alien
ship crash landed in Roswell,
a ship with four
occupants came down
just 18 miles from
that site, and 30 days
after the detonation of
the first atomic bomb test.
A memo from a special agent to
the director of the FBI in 1950
discovered that there
were three ships that
crashed around the Los
Alamos nuclear power plant
in New Mexico.
The documents said that
extraterrestrial beings had
been recovered, and that the
ships had been brought down
as a result of the
powerful radars that
operated in the area.
On August 16, 1945, two
children 6 and 7 years old
were looking for a cow in the
vicinity of a New Mexico ranch
just a few miles away
from the Trinity site.
These children witnessed
the crash landing
of an oval-shaped ship
that crashed into a tower
and fell to the ground.
They saw beings with
nonhuman characteristics
who were barely larger
than themselves.
With binoculars, they
observed the little beings
for almost two
hours, an experience
that they would never forget.
Later, the army arrived,
and took the ship
to an unknown location.
However, the children, Jose
Padilla, and Reme Baca,
took a piece of metal from
inside the ship, a piece
that they have preserved
until this day.
Journalist Paola Harris was the
first to investigate this case,
and reached the conclusion
that it was authentic.
We had the opportunity to talk
with her at the historic Owl
Bar and Cafe, the
very same place
those people that participated
in the development
of the first atomic bomb met,
codenamed Manhattan Project.
They came to this
bar and cafe to talk
about these
extraordinary events.
>> So where did you find
the story of San Antonio?
Where did you find Jose
Padilla and Reme Baca?
>> Well, in about 2004,
I was living in Italy,
and I read a story by Ben
Moffett for the newspaper here
in San Antonio.
And I read this story--
it was on internet-- about two
little Mexican boys that had
witnessed a crash with beings.
And when I was in
Italy, I thought, well,
why isn't somebody
researching this?
Then years later, I got a tip
from a friend and the telephone
number of Reme Baca.
He was one of those little boys.
I had already read the
Ben Moffett article.
And Ben Moffett went to
school with Reme and Jose,
so he knew about this story,
because they had told him.
So I got a tip, and also
I got the telephone number
of Reme Baca, who lived
in Gig Harbor, Washington.
And I called for one solid year.
I called for one solid year
and made friends with him
so he would trust me.
And he began telling
me about this story.
Then he asked me to speak to
Jose, who was in California.
And I verified this story.
Because both men had
the very same story.
I wrote an article for X Times
in Italy about the story.
I contacted you.
I contacted James Fox.
I contacted Swiss TV,
who went to interview
Reme Baca in Washington.
Thank god I did that, because
like Don Schmitt says,
it's a race with the undertaker.
Because these people are
dying, and they are witnesses
to very amazing events.
So we have on camera, Reme
Baca, who died in June.
And today you have Jose Padilla,
who actually brought you
to the site.
And this is my job
as an investigator.
I've been working
at it since 2009.
We're at 2014.
Five years to work on
this story, which I think
is one of the most
amazing stories ever.
Because it connects to the
atomic bomb situation, which
I think was the
stimulus for a lot
of the crashes in New Mexico.
>> We are hearing about where
Robert Oppenheimer used to sit
and drink and relax and
talk about the bomb.
And nobody knew about it.
>> Nobody knew about it.
>> The bomb was detonated
not very far from here.
>> No, 18 miles from here.
And the crash site is behind us.
It's about maybe
seven or eight miles.
And it's in the township
of San Antonio, New Mexico.
So all of these events took
place in August of 1945.
This bar is very important.
Because I really believe
that if there was a crash--
I mean, Oppenheimer
and the scientists
would have to know about it.
They would certainly
have to know about it.
And they may have
even gone on the site.
Because this was amazing.
This was news.
This was something
that affected them.
So I think that in those
days, the scientists that
were working on this knew very
well that there were crashes,
and they were related to either
the high intensity radar that
brought them down, or some
kind of environmental thing
that brought them down.
But the visitations in those
days was around this big event.
This planet had discovered
the nuclear age.
>> And the crash, according to
how it was reported it happened
when I was 16, just a month
after the atomic bomb was
detonated.
>> Right.
But there are photographs--
and I have some--
of the men on the Trinity
site with the mushroom
cloud with UFOs
in the background.
They have been leaked out.
So when we did that, it upset
something in the environment,
or in dimensions, where
it caused this phenomenon.
And you know that it's
the birth of ufology.
Roswell is considered
mythologically, the birth
of the modern UFO era.
But this is even more
amazing, because it's 1945,
which is two years before.
>> Thus the case of the San
Antonio alien incident would
join the cases that occurred in
Roswell and Aztec, New Mexico.
All of them were in close
proximity to the place
where atomic bombs were
detonated between 1945 and '48.
It's not by chance that
these alien visitors
had been so interested
in the new technology
that human beings had
developed for war purposes.
>> How far are we
hear from Los Alamos,
from the Trinity site
where the bomb exploded?
>> See those bumpy hills there?
>> Yeah.
>> That's Trinity site.
Over to the left
of there, that's
where the entrance is
to that Trinity site.
Well, they used to call
it Stallion site before.
>> Where is San
Antonio from here?
>> Our ranch is down on
this gully right here
to the right-hand
side about four miles.
>> You were so
close from Trinity.
>> Well, from where the
bomb was, it's 18 miles.
>> 18 miles?
>> 18 miles.
>> It's too close, isn't it?
>> It is too close.
Because that's when my mother--
we see when that
bomb exploded there--
when she looked out
through to the door at it,
she got blind from that eye.
It took about three minutes for
the wind, hot wind floating up
this way.
That was the radiation.
>> You were hit by it?
>> Oh yes.
We felt it, it was
warm, like a warm--
not this fast, you know?
But there was like a warm
wind coming through then.
>> And your mother?
>> My mother lost the sight
of that eye, you know?
She was looking at that.
But she lost it from the
[INAUDIBLE] explosion
when she [INAUDIBLE].
>> But you didn't?
>> Just burned.
Well, no I jumped
underneath the bed.
Then about three minutes
later, I came out.
That's when everything
was kind of silent.
And we seen an aeroplane
flying over our range
coming up this way.
I guess they were
checking out, seeing
if there was any damage here.
>> How did you feel then?
>> Well, I just felt a strong
blow and the light of it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Do you think it's a relation
between this UFO and the atomic
bomb?
>> It could be more like the
White Sands experimental thing
there.
And in other words
too, my opinion
is that these people that
are coming around over here,
they're trying to
see how we live.
Because--
>> They were curious.
>> Yeah.
Because if they were
out here to kill us,
it'd be really easy for them.
It doesn't take long for them
to get down here from up there,
you know?
It takes us forever to get
up from here to the moon.
And that's what I
think, you know?
They're trying to find
out, see the way we--
>> I mean, it would have to
be a big coincidence that this
happened just a few days after
an atomic bomb was exploded
right here.
>> That's why I say they
were trying to find out what
happened, and what we had--
>> What we had done.
>> Yeah.
>> One of the most outstanding
aspects of the case is that
they had a clear vision of
the beings that were injured
in the ship.
They all appeared hurt, and one
of them couldn't move at all.
The children watched
them with binoculars
for almost two hours.
>> But it was--
>> You saw the little creatures?
>> From here, yes,
with the binoculars.
We used--
>> Oh, you had binoculars?
>> --to carry binoculars.
Oh yeah, we had
carried binoculars.
I still have them.
>> That's why you
saw them so clearly?
>> Yeah!
>> Both of you.
How many creatures you saw?
>> Four.
>> Four creatures?
Three of them were running--
you could see it
through that hole--
running back and forth like they
were hurt, they were injured.
And the other one just sitting
right there in the side.
I don't know if that
guy was dead or was hurt
and couldn't move.
That's why I decided to
go down there to help him.
But Reme doesn't let me.
He was scared.
Like I said, I told
you before, maybe
if I would have gone up there,
I wouldn't be here today,
you know?
I'd be somewhere else, you know?
>> Were they screaming?
>> They had a scream
like a jackrabbit.
What do you call a
jackrabbit in Spanish?
La liebre?
>> Si.
>> Liebre.
Like, when we used to
shoot them and they
used to squeal
[SQUEALING] like a baby.
That's why I say that they
were hurt, they were injured.
>> All of them were screaming?
>> All?
we don't know, you know?
It was off and on,
off and on, you know?
But we were here for
about an hour and a half,
almost an hour and 45 minutes,
two hours watching them.
>> You saw them
very, very clear?
>> Oh yeah.
They were-- like I said, I
could see the four fingers,
the long arms.
And they didn't have no ears.
So I thought maybe they had
an overall or a uniform.
But the mouth was kind of small.
And that's what the
song was coming out of.
It wasn't a mouth
like ours, you know?
No beard, it was just a
straight slicker like a uniform.
>> What kind of
insect remind you?
>> Like hormiga, an ant--
you know those red ants?--
standing up.
Have you ever seen
them standing up?
It's something like that.
>> Somebody said in Spanish,
it would be cara de niño.
What is that?
>> There is another
red thing like--
>> Maybe--
>> --niño de la tierra.
>> Si.
>> It's something like that.
It almost resembles an ant.
But if you would get
an ant and draw it up--
a big picture of it--
it would be something like
that except for the arms.
>> Children of the earth?
>> Children on the Earth, yeah.
There was something like that.
But the niño de la
tierra is usually curled.
Now if he was
straightened upright,
he would resemble
something like that.
And according to the head--
the head more likely
look like an ant.
It was shaped like that, with
teardrop eyes and no ears.
>> How tall?
>> OK, we were about that tall.
I would say 3 and 1/2 feet.
>> 3 and 1/2 feet?
>> About 3 and 1/2 feet.
Just like us.
You know, we were little
kids then, you know?
>> Did you feel scared by them?
>> No.
>> No?
>> No, I have never
been scared of nothing.
That's why I wanted to
go in there, you know?
>> Were you impressed?
Did you know they weren't
from the earth at that moment?
>> No?
>> What did you think?
>> I thought that
something crashed,
that those guys
out there are hurt.
Let's go help them, you know.
My intentions has been
for life, you know?
If I see anybody getting hurt,
I try to go and help them
if I can help.
If I can't help, I
just go around and keep
on going my way, you know?
And that's what I
thought about this.
They were running back and
forth, squealing, you know?
>> Did you realize
they were not humans?
>> To me, they looked like
little boys since they were
short, you know?
The only thing different
on them that was surprising
is the four fingers
and the long arms.
Then I remember a monkey
has got long arms.
>> When did you realize that
what you saw probably was not
from this earth?
>> I never thought anything
about that until they started
bringing out that UFOs,
like Roswell and all that.
That's when I thought, well,
was that thing that we've seen,
you know?
>> It is remarkable the
similarity of the description
that was offered by witnesses
who observed what appeared
to be alien beings in the
cases of Roswell and Aztec,
and what also occurred in New
Mexico in subsequent years.
Four days after the
accident on August 20th,
seven members of the
army were assigned
to the security of the
Los Alamos nuclear base,
the same men that had
participated as test subjects
to measure the effects of
the atomic bomb on humans.
>> Who told the military
that this craft was here?
>> That William Bodi
from Hollywood, Florida,
was assigned from the Stallion
site in White Sands on a plane
to check around for
weather balloons.
And that's when he
reported that there
was an object on the ground,
and there was two little Indians
on horses watching it.
That's what we were here.
>> He saw you?
>> Yeah, he saw us.
He reported us, you know?
We were two little
Indians on two horses.
And that's when they
started coming in
after-- this was about four
days after it had happened.
>> Jose and Remigio watched the
military work for several days.
They were waiting for a
chance to grab a souvenir
from the ship to remember
their experience.
They didn't know that it
was a ship from outer space
that held nonhuman beings.
In 1945, that concept
did not exist, especially
for two children who
were born and raised
in the countryside
far from civilization.
They just wanted
a little souvenir.
After the soldiers loaded
the ship onto a truck,
they drove it to an old
barn in San Antonio.
It was there that
they entered the ship
and took a souvenir,
which they have
kept for more than 70 years
and are now revealing to us.
>> The last day that they
came over and they loaded up
everything up here, put
the tarp on it, the ropes.
We were hiding up
there looking at them.
All seven of them all got
in the Jeep in the evening
and took off to go see
the girls in the Owl Bar.
>> And that's up there?
>> That's when we decided
to come down here.
There was no one over here.
>> The craft was in
the trailer already?
>> It was on the trailer with a
tarp on top and the ropes tied
down.
>> And was alone here?
>> Yeah, by itself, yeah.
There was no one.
They took off on the Jeep
and took off, you know?
I don't know what
time they came back,
but that object was moved
that night around 12 o'clock.
Because at 12 o'clock,
San Antonio is asleep.
And the following day, we came
out here and it wasn't here.
But we had seen
it the day before.
>> It wasn't long before the
military realized that a piece
from the inside of
the ship was missing.
>> They took inventory of what
they loaded on the trailer.
But like I said, someone broke
in there and took something.
When they got over there,
they took inventory,
and a piece was missing.
They couldn't find
out who it was.
>> They came back?
>> They came back two days
afterwards to my dad's ranch,
the house, and asked, seeing
if there was anything that
belonged to the military.
That's when my dad
told Manuel, there's
some weather balloons that are
sitting out there on the shack,
you know?
They went over and
they took that.
But afterwards-- back
in 1965, my cousin
was driving up here to
go check the windmill.
And they pulled him over
before the cattle guard.
The soldiers pulled him over
and they wouldn't let him cross.
>> Why?
>> They went after
something that was missing.
>> They didn't come here?
>> It possible that
they were out here too.
But they were stopping
all traffic out there.
Because there's a Y where you
go to Biancas and Padilla.
>> So you think they came to
look for the pieces here or no?
>> It's possible that they did.
But they didn't look
too good, though.
>> According to Jose Padilla,
some of the parts of the ship
are still buried at the site.
>> Where did they bury
the pieces, right there,
right here?
>> No, the crevice
was right here.
It was right here.
[INAUDIBLE] sitting right
there, and the crevice
was right next to it.
And they used to come
down and come right-- see
where that clay is right there?
Used to come right
straight down like that.
>> The stream?
>> The stream, yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> On the side of the
stream, they buried this?
>> Yeah.
>> How many pieces?
It was too much?
>> I couldn't tell you how
many, because I didn't know it.
They were kicking
it with their feet
and they're pushing it in and
putting dirt on top of it.
>> This was before Roswell?
>> Yes it was.
>> Roswell was in 1947.
>> Yeah.
>> Then at that
moment, probably,
they were not so
concerned about security.
>> We were-- the United States
was too busy fighting the war,
you know?
Waiting for them to send
Jumbo or Big Fat Boy from here
to beat the hell out
of Iwo Jima, you know?
That's why they never
investigated over here.
>> The case of San Antonio,
New Mexico is extraordinary.
Because it was the first ship
that landed near Los Alamos
not long after the detonation
of atomic bombs there.
In addition, it is believed
that it was the first one that
crashed as a result of the
powerful military microwave
radars at the site.
The radars were there to protect
the Los Alamos nuclear plant.
It's the case that,
without any doubt,
raises many questions that
still must be answered.
>> After you had
investigated this case,
after you talked to Reme
Baca and Jose Padilla,
after you have learned so
many details about the case,
what do you think of it?
>> I think it's an amazing case.
We've got everything here.
We have the site, and the
site it needs to be examined,
the soil and so forth.
We have the witnesses.
And we have a piece.
What else has that?
The problem with the
case is it is so simple.
It's so simple that it's
hard for people to believe.
You've talked to Jose.
He's telling you
the truth is simple.
So they say if it walks like a
duck, if it quacks like a duck,
it's a duck, which
means this is a case.
This is a case.
>> It's real?
>> It's real.
I mean, it's simple.
It's so simple it's real.
What needs to happen now is the
analysis, which you're doing
and we're doing on the piece,
the analysis on the soil.
And the problem is that
we waited too long.
Don Schmitt talks about this.
We wait too long,
the people die,
so we don't have
any more witnesses.
We can't, because
it's so long ago.
It's 69 years ago.
But I think that we're very
lucky to speak to Jose Padilla
while he's still here.
And we're very lucky to have
him take us on the location
while he's still here.
So I think the way I
feel as a researcher--
and you asked me that--
is this is history.
We just recorded history
for our grandchildren,
our great-grandchildren, our
great-great-grandchildren,
and for his grandchildren.
I hope we to give
his grandchildren
a copy of what we did, which
is the most important thing
of all.
>> Why they waited game until
2003 to release this story?
>> Well, because they
couldn't find each other.
Because when Jose came
back to look for Reme,
he had moved to Gig
Harbor, Washington.
It is only because
of Jose's son, Sammy,
that did a genealogical
check where
he found out where Reme was.
And this is years later.
Reme had gone somewhere else,
they didn't know where he was.
And when they found out where
Reme was, they got on the phone
like two boys, and they said,
do you remember what happened?
And the other one said, yes,
And naturally,
Reme says to Jose,
do you remember what
you took out of there?
And he said, where
is it right now?
And then Jose proceeded
to mail it to Reme.
Reme had the piece.
You saw it in your first
film that you took of him.
And this is how they connected.
It was by coincidence that
they found each other again
that we're able to
verify their story.
Because they both
experienced that.
There's nobody else
that experienced that.
And we're very lucky, because
we were able to get both of them
while they're alive.
>> In this story, besides the
metal and we have the testimony
of two little kids.
I never heard that story before.
I mean, the main witnesses
were two little kids.
>> 9 years old and
6 years old, yeah.
Why would they invent
all those details?
And we have details,
so many details.
Yeah, they were in the wrong
place at the wrong time.
And this event for them--
because there was no
television, there was no movies,
there was no talk
of it in 1944--
they didn't even
know what UFO's were.
Basically, for two little kids,
it's purity, it's innocence.
They're telling the truth,
because they have nothing
like today--
the science fiction--
to compare it to.
They have nothing
What's totally amazing is
that one of the little kids
went inside the craft
and wanted a souvenir.
>> And they got it.
And even though
the military tried
to take the souvenir back--
because a part of the
inventory was missing--
he was able to keep that
souvenir for all these years
what he called the--
but that's normal.
A little boy wants--
I want piece of this,
I want a souvenir.
So I think it's a very
fascinating story, Jaime.
And I'm really, really happy
that we were able to do it.
>> Today we know that the
first radars developed were
dangerous, not only for the
people who operated them
but for airplanes in flight.
The radars could interfere
with their electronic devices
and cause them to crash.
Many years before,
agent Guy Hottel
had become aware
of the crashed UFOs
in the vicinity of Los Alamos.
Hottel had informed J. Edgar
Hoover, director of the FBI,
that the ships had
been brought down
due to the interference
of powerful radars,
that it interfered with
their navigation system.
Later, these radars were taken
out of operation in 1957,
because they were very dangerous
for aircraft and for humans.
We do know that very powerful
experimental models were
used that transmitted microwaves
and emitted ionized radiation.
There are no studies
of how many people died
and how many planes were
lost with that technology
between 1945 and
1959 in New Mexico.
However, there was a study
conducted in Belgium,
which was recently published.
And according to their
findings, the exposure
of professional
military personnel
to antiaircraft radars used
in Europe in the '50s and '60s
may have increased the incidence
of immune lymphatic cancer.
However, they were unable to
identify whether this tumorous
cancer was due to microwaves
or ionized radiation produced
by electronic devices.
This type of radar was
discontinued in 1957,
not only because they affected
the operator's health,
but because there was a
real danger to aviation.
There are unregistered
cases where
aircraft, mainly of
a military nature,
crashed as a result
of the radars
interfering with their
navigation systems.
It was feared that
at any moment,
they could cause a commercial
airplane with passengers
on board to crash.
Little by little, we're
getting a better understanding
of what happened in New
Mexico between 1945 and '48.
We do know that three alien
ships crashed to the ground
in the vicinity of the
Los Alamos nuclear plant.
The first incident was in San
Antonio on August 16th, 1945,
the second in Roswell on
July 2nd or 3rd, 1947,
and the third in Aztec
on March 25th, 1948.
These occurrences were
indicated by a short memorandum
that the FBI has
tried to discredit.
>> So there is a document in
Ryan Wood and Bob Wood's files
from Majestic-12.
It is a letter from
Oppenheimer and Einstein
called "Relationships
with Celestial Bodies."
And it went to Truman in
June of 1947, before Roswell.
And it said to
President Truman, we
are having a situation
with extraterrestrials
and we need to put some
protocols in place.
Because we're seeing
that they're coming.
This is Einstein and Oppenheimer
who wrote this letter.
It's in the MJ-12 documents.
>> A letter was written by
Albert Einstein and Robert
Oppenheimer to US
President Harry S. Truman.
Although it has been
questioned whether it
is authentic evidence, this
is a fragment of that letter.
"Relationships with
extraterrestrial men
presents basically
no new problem
from the standpoint
of international law.
But the possibility of
confronting intelligent beings
that do not belong
to the human race
would bring up
problems whose solution
it is difficult to conceive.
In principle, there
is no difficulty
in accepting the
possibility of coming
to an understanding with
them and of establishing
all kinds of relationships.
The difficulty lies
in trying to establish
the principles on which these
relationships should be based.
In the first place, it would
be necessary to establish
communication with them
through some language or other,
and afterwards, as a first
condition for all intelligence,
that they should have a
psychology similar to that
of men.
At any rate, international
law should make place
for a new law on
a different basis.
And it might be called 'law
among planetary peoples.'
following the guidelines
found in the Pentateuch.
Obviously, the idea
of revolutionizing
international law to
the point to where
it would be capable of
coping with new situations
would compel us to make a
change in its structure,
a change so basic that
it would no longer be
international law,
that is to say,
as it is conceived today, but
something altogether different,
so that it could no
longer bear the same name.
If these intelligent
beings were in possession
of more or less culture,
and more or less perfect
political organization, they
would have an absolute right
to be recognized as independent
and sovereign peoples."
President Truman did not
agree to discuss the proposal
with Einstein and Oppenheimer.
However, it is clear that their
letter had a decisive influence
in declaring the UFO phenomenon
a matter of national security.
The considerations presented by
the scientists to the president
showed that accepting
this phenomenon
and giving rights to
extraterrestrial beings
was a very complex issue.
The otherworldly incident would
be buried in government files
and kept secret, or left
for future generations
to discover and
ascertain their meaning.
>> In the next
edition of "Nuevo,"
we will present an exclusive
interview with Remigio Baca,
the second witness who died
shortly after giving us that
interview.
We will present the object
that both Remigio Baca and Jose
Padilla recovered when
they were children,
and that has remained hidden
for more than 70 years.
I'm Jaime Maussan,
and I will see you
in the next episode of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented Nuevo,
with Jaime Maussan.